Once we've found some keywords and
we've potentially identified
using those keywords.
A collection of relevant sites,
we're ready to build our to start what's
called a link building campaign and
this is a concerted effort to get
people to start referring to your app.
So the first tip I have for you there
is build a handful of relevant URLs.
These should be like pages that
you spend a lot of time on and
that you curate carefully.
And you're gonna want to never change
these URLs because over time, like over
a matter of years, you want to build a lot
of references pointing to these things.
You don't want to,
you want to make sure that these are what
we call canonical URLs, canonical URLs.
And that means you're gonna strip
off the query params from these,
strip any like session ID stuff from them,
take off any like hash portion of the URL.
And the reason is when search engines
start trying to create like, counts as to
who's referring to what those are regarded
as completely separate URLs, right?
And so you want to focus your efforts on
a small number of targets because your
goal is not to just get a whole
bunch of like you don't want
a whole bunch of pennies
you want $100 bill, right?
You want a couple high-value things
that are gonna consistently show up and
you're gonna be deliberate about the way
you place these things relevant to topics
that you care about.
So, front end masters might have,
I know they have one page per course, but
it would not be a terrible idea
to have tracks where you have.
The JavaScript track where you start
out with intro to web development, and
then you move on to more advanced topics.
And then finally, we have advanced
functional JavaScript at the end.
Because now anything that relates to that,
even as new courses land,
they could update that track.
And that's sort of a permanent
entity that lives even when my
ember one point x course, I don't even
have an ember two point x course but
like ten years from now.
When we're on Ember 17 like my
contents not going to be relevant, but
JavaScript still will be.
So you wanna make sure that these
are things that have a long lifetime and
you wanna use the same
collection of links.
Just a handful of them.
Over and over.
>> They call those topic pages.
I think that's the word
people started calling them.
>> That sounds right topic pages.
So, there is a term you may come
across called link velocity and
this is just the rate at which inbound
links to your presence grow over time.
Generally, this is weighted by PageRank or
the equivalent, so link velocity is
sort of the rate at which you're
gaining credibility amongst your peers.
An easy way to get some of this
link building started is to do
guest blog posts.
So if none of you have ever run
sort of a content oriented site,
you're always looking for
your next post like it is.
It is a lot of effort to write blog posts.
And if someone comes to you with like a
really high quality piece of content, and
they say, hi, I'm in your space,
I'm not necessarily competitor.
But maybe this is like
a trade organization.
Like, here you go.
Here's some content.
I wrote this.
I was thinking that you might
post this like you will,
you will get a favorable
response more often than not.
Another thing that I'm, I'd like to
demonstrate to you is a way to like look
at your competitors and to figure out
which keywords they're targeting and
what aspect of SEO
they're oriented towards.
SpyFu is my preferred tool for this.
So unlike some of the SEO tools,
a SpyFu actually gives you some valuable
stuff without you having to pay for it.
So we're gonna take
a look at that briefly.
>> So
this strategy wouldn't quite work for
a single page application maybe
where you set up a link campaign.
>> Good question about
single page apps versus SEO.
So I'm going to choose to dive
into that topic in general.
I like rather than try to answer
that question specifically so
modern web crawlers,
they will actually run JavaScript.
And so single page apps will
very often get picked up.
However, with the people
who designed crawlers,
it's sort of an efficiency game, right?
So the faster they can chew through
a set of URLs and completely crawl them,
the more often they'll get to like refresh
their content, and they'll be up to date.
So there's a constant drive to be more and
more efficient.
Rumor has it that many
crawlers will give up
executing JavaScript at a particular time.
So if you're relying on
client side rendering,
what can happen is if the thresholds
that two and a half seconds, and
you're still downloading your
client side JavaScript, and
you have a loading spinner on the page,
like the clock is gonna stop.
And whatever your HTML is at that moment,
that may be what ends up getting indexed.
What I would advise, instead is to look
at server side rendering solutions.
Which are available for
most of the single page app frameworks.
So when I build Ember apps,
I use fast boot, which will serve up
like SEO ready HTML with
the actual HTTP response.
And then sort of the client side app kicks
in when the the JavaScript app downloads
a second later.
But single page apps should work with SEO,
sync server side rendering is a way
that you can make sure you get it right.
There are contexts where your JavaScript
is not run on the client side,
sorry when it's not run by a crawler, but
these would be like sharing your link
on Facebook or Twitter or iMessage.
These are sort of the non search engine
in richmonds that require
those meta tags to be present.
So they don't, they won't even
download that JavaScript resource.
They'll just go with whatever
the HTML is that comes back.
So here, we have SpyFu.
And let's let me blow
this up a little bit.
So it starts with,
enter your competitors website.
So just to keep things relevant here.
We'll look at front end masters,
since we all know what that's about.
So it's kind of chewing through
its data on front end masters and
what we're going to see is that
it has 207 organic keywords here.
You could create an account
to see more results and
pay to see even more results,
but we're starting to see that.
Here are the highly ranked keywords
that relate to front end masters.
So here,
a number nine rank like this is sort of
extremely relevant to this
business whose URL we typed in.
So front end is that a scene is like,
right on target for
what this content is all about,
which seems right.
And we can also see that, if we look at
other sites, so I'm just gonna look at
LinkedIn.com because they're
gonna have some other data here.
So you can see here they have a ton
of keywords, a lot of clicks, and
they can even attempt to guess
like what the AdWords budget is.
Based on how often those ads show up and
the estimated cost of those
keywords so this like,
this is an invaluable tool.
If you come up with
a list of competitors and
run through Spyfu, you can figure
out like where basically build
on top of the research they've
already done and try to hone in on.
The same little pockets that
they're honing in on and
probably add a couple more of your own.
So I love using this tool.
Frankly, I don't pay for it.
But if I were building a business
where SEO was like a huge driver for
new business, this would definitely be.
Probably a good place to invest
some money in actual membership.